# cs3110-geographic-privacy
A solo project adding progressively more accurate, and secure privacy methods to Coordinate data. 

## Writeup

Problem Statement:  Geolocation is one aspect of personal information which was not discussed in class.  I wanted to challenge myself by figuring out how I could use the mechanisms of differential privacy we learned in class as it related to protecting physical locations on earth.

Description:  My project is broken up into several code chunks. Each chunk progressively finds a better solution to my problem statement, as they build upon the principles and mistakes learned from the one prior.  Chunk 1 was implemented so I could learn how to manipulate and plot my data. No privacy mechanisms were used.  Chunk 2 works by taking in a user longitude and latitude coordinate.  It then applies privacy to this coordinate in the form of laplace noise, and calculates this noisy location to the nearest city.  Chunk 3 calculates a noisy center point of the 100 most populated cities in China using the gaussian mechanism.  For comparison, it then generates the true center point and maps them.  A percent error is included to show how using a sum was more accurate than directly manipulating the coordinates.  Finally, for chunk 4, I generated a random selection of 1000 points from my dataset.  I then divided these points into groups based on which country they were located in and added noise.  This allowed me to generate a heat map of the world showing the approximate concentration of the locations in each country.

Results: For chunk 2, mapping my noisy coordinate showed me that adding noise directly to a coordinate was not feasible. This is due to small variations in longitude and latitude causing substantial changes to the location.  For chunk 3, using the sum of 100 cities gave for more accurate answers due to the law of averages.  For chunk 4, applying noise to a heatmap of locations consistently gave accurate outputs.  This allows me to conclude that the best way to add privacy to locations is to group them into segmented chunks, and then display the chunks on a heatmap.  There are almost certainly better methods to apply privacy to coordinate data, but this was the best method I could come up with given the time frame.
